DOCSP-39555: java driver sig verification (#76)
10gen/docs-shared: dbx/jvm-validate-artifacts.rst

===================================
Validate Driver Artifact Signatures
===================================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: tutorial

.. meta::
   :keywords: java, kotlin, security, SSDLC

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

You can validate the signature of a {+driver-short+} artifact published
on Maven. This process can enhance the security of your system or
network by allowing you to confirm the authenticity of the driver.

Procedure
---------

The following steps describe how you can validate driver artifact
signatures.

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Install an Encryption Software
      
      You must first install one of the following encryption suites:
      
      - `GnuPG <https://gnupg.org/>`__ (`Homebrew Installation <https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/gnup>`__)
      - `GPG Suite <https://gpgtools.org>`__ (`Homebrew Installation <https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/gpg-suite>`__)

   .. step:: Download and Import the Public Key
      

>       Navigate to the driver source GitHub repository and view

Reviewer: S: maybe a little awkward

```suggestion
      Navigate to the {+driver-short+} GitHub repository and view
```

Author: This isn't totally accurate - the source code is for all of the JVM drivers. I will change the language

Reviewer: good point

      the `Releases <https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-java-driver/releases>`__ page.
      Each version release contains instructions on how to download and import the public key for
      verifying signatures.

   .. step:: Download the Signed File

>       In your terminal, run a ``curl`` command to download the signed

Reviewer: S: super small change, could go either way on this. applies throughout

```suggestion
      In your terminal, run the ``curl`` command to download the signed
```

      file corresponding to a version of the driver. For example,
      running the following command downloads the signed file for the
      v5.1.0 driver:

      .. code-block:: sh
      
         curl -LO https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/mongodb/mongodb-driver-core/5.1.0/mongodb-driver-core-5.1.0.jar

   .. step:: Download the File Signature
      
      In your terminal, run a ``curl`` command to download the file
      signature corresponding to a version of the driver. For example,
      running the following command downloads the file signature for the
      v5.1.0 driver:

      .. code-block:: sh

         curl -LO https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/mongodb/mongodb-driver-core/5.1.0/mongodb-driver-core-5.1.0.jar.asc

   .. step:: Verify the Signature
      
      Finally, you can verify the signature by using the encryption package.
      The following terminal command uses ``gpg`` to verify the artifact signature of the v5.1.0

>       driver:

Reviewer: Q: do both of the above encryption suites use GPG like this for verification? (If not, might be helpful to include an example of the other method too)

Author: I'll look into this!

Author: It looks like GPG suite is a GUI in which you can perform the same actions, so I'll change this section and move that into a tip, instead.

===================================
Validate Driver Artifact Signatures
===================================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: tutorial

.. meta::
   :keywords: java, kotlin, security, SSDLC, encryption

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

You can validate the signature of a {+driver-short+} artifact published
on Maven. This process can enhance the security of your system or
network by allowing you to confirm the authenticity of the driver.

Procedure
---------

The following steps describe how you can validate driver artifact
signatures.

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Install Encryption Software
      
      You must first install the `GnuPG <https://gnupg.org/>`__ encryption suite to use GPG

>       on the command line. You can install GnuPG by using `Homebrew <https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/gnup>`__.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      on the command line. You can install GnuPG by using `Homebrew <https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/gnupg>`__.
```

Reviewer 2: ✅ Done.

      
      .. tip::
         

>          You can also install `GPG Suite <https://gpgtools.org>`__, which provides a GUI to use GPG.

Reviewer 2: Let's emphasize that it's "either or", otherwise users may think they need to install GnuPG and GPG Suite on top of that, which is wrong.

Reviewer 2: ✅ Done.

         There is a `Homebrew installation <https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/gpg-suite>`__) for GPG Suite.

   .. step:: Download and Import the Public Key
      

>       Navigate to the MongoDB JVM drivers GitHub repository and view
>       the `Releases <https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-java-driver/releases>`__ page.

Reviewer 2: Why should users navigate somewhere before viewing the releases page? Let's just tell them to go to the releases page.

```suggestion
      Navigate to
      the `Releases <https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-java-driver/releases>`__ page
      in the MongoDB JVM drivers GitHub repository.
```

Reviewer 2: ✅ Done.

      Finally, you can verify the signature by using the encryption package.
      The following terminal command uses ``gpg`` to verify the artifact signature of the v5.1.0
      driver:

      .. code-block:: sh

         gpg --verify mongodb-driver-core-5.1.0.jar.asc mongodb-driver-core-5.1.0.jar
      
      If you successfully verify the signature, you see a message
      similar to the following:

      .. code-block:: none
         :copyable: false

         gpg: Signature made Tue 30 Apr 12:05:34 2024 MDT
         gpg:                using RSA key 76E0008D166740A8
         gpg: Good signature from "MongoDB Java Driver Release Signing Key <packaging@mongodb.com>" [unknown]
         gpg: WARNING: This key is not certified with a trusted signature!
         gpg:          There is no indication that the signature belongs to the owner.
         Primary key fingerprint: 1A75 005E 1421 9222 3D6A  7C3B 76E0 008D 1667 40A8

Additional Information
----------------------

To learn more about verifying signatures, see :manual:`Verify Integrity
of MongoDB Packages </tutorial/verify-mongodb-packages/>` in the Server
manual.

To learn more about GnuPG, see the `GNU Privacy Handbook

> <https://gnupg.org/gph/en/manual/book1.html>`__.

Reviewer 2: Anyone who is actually interested in GnuPG is capable of opening the documentation from their website, which is linked at the beginning of `jvm-validate-artifacts.rst`. Us linking to a specific single document from that documentation is hardly of any help (I would argue that it's rather harmful, as it pollutes the page).

Reviewer 2: ✅ Done.
